ExtOptORCA-OpenQP

The oqp_orca_wrapper script can be used to run optimizations with OpenQP MRSF and the ORCA external optimizer (see details at ORCA manual).

The script reads the files INPUT_NAME.extinp.tmp and INPUT_NAME.xyz (generated by ORCA when called with the ExtOpt keyword), 
substitutes a few fields in the hard-coded input example for OpenQP MRSF, runs OpenQP with that geometry, and then extracts 
the MRSF-TDDFT gradient from the grad_# file to feed it back to the ORCA optimizer.

If your ORCA installation runs jobs in a scratch directory, you might want to fetch the EXT_ORCA_FOR_OQP.*, 
grad_*, and energy files from the scratch at the end of the run (these files contain the last MRSF gradient 
calculation, which might be useful in some situations).

INPUT PREPARATION

As described in the ORCA 6.0.1 documentation (see ORCA manual), you must specify the location of the wrapper script using one of the following methods:
1. As a file or link named otool_external in the same directory as the ORCA executables.
2. By assigning the EXTOPTEXE environment variable to the full path of the external program.
3. Via the ORCA input:

%method
  ProgExt "/full/path/to/script"
  Ext_Params "optional command line arguments"
end

Regardless of which option is used, the keyword Ext_Params can specify additional command line arguments as a single string.
In this particular script, Ext_Params MUST contain two arguments:
1. An integer designating the singlet state for optimization (e.g., "1" for the first singlet state—which is the ground state, "2" for the first excited singlet, etc.).
2. The basis set in OpenQP format (e.g., 6-31g(d) or 6-31g* depending on your version/build).

Example:
Ext_Params "2 6-31g*"    # This example will optimize S1 with the 6-31g* basis set.

Other OpenQP specifications can also be changed within the script.

Thank you for using the script!

Best,
Crespi group,
Uppsala University
